I know you're tempted to skip ahead.
Don't.
This is the part that gets asked in interviews.
Enabled with enable.idempotence=true.
The broker assigns each producer instance a Producer ID (PID).
The producer assigns a sequence number to every batch per partition, starting at 0 and incrementing.
When a retry arrives, the broker checks: have I already written a batch with this PID + partition + sequence number?
If yes, it silently discards the duplicate without returning an error , which is pretty wild if you think about it.
Interviewers have a favorite trap question about Mechanism 2: Transactional Producer.
90 percent of candidates fall for it.
I will show you the trap and how to avoid it.